[Music]
tick tock tick tock you know what that
sound is
it's also your money frittering away
because you've left home and didn't
unplug your power charger yep it
continues to leak energy and it's not
the only power vampire in your home
here are some foolproof ways to lower
your electricity expenses share the ones
you find useful wash your clothes in
cold water painting water for washing
makes your heater work much harder
expending valuable watts per hour unless
your laundry is really dirty cold water
will do the trick just as well turn down
your thermostat just one or two degrees
won't make a difference for you but will
certainly reflect in your electricity
bill next month or if you have some
extra bucks install a smart thermostat
it will allow you to control not only
the temperature but also the rooms which
you'd like to warm it'll also learn the
time it takes your home to get warm so
it's the most cost efficient solution
you can save up to fifty dollars a year
if you simply unplug your TV laptop
kettle and anything else you usually
leave on standby even when these
appliances are turned off they still use
a small amount of power and the same
goes for your phone charger left in the
socket to charge your phone this block
transformed the AC or alternating
current to DC also known as direct
current as well as lowers the voltage so
as not to fry your device when the
charger is plugged in but not connected
to your phone
it still transforms the current and
voltage consuming a miniscule amount of
energy over a year though it might
really add up installing smart phone
controlled sockets will also help if you
tend to forget to unplug your devices
this way you'll always be sure you've
turned everything off for good
check that all your appliances are in
good shape even a properly working
fridge takes up about 50% of your home
and
consumption a faulty one might easily
become a money drain don't scrimp on
energy-efficient appliances they might
be more expensive to start with but
they'll save you hundreds of bucks on
electricity bills during their lifetime
check your windows and doors for drafts
if there's an air leak somewhere you
might be wasting your thermostats work
put weather strips or otherwise seal
every opening to keep the heat inside
your home your water heater also uses up
a lot of energy just like with the
thermostat turning it down a notch can
help you save several bucks a month wear
clothes that suit the time of year if
you like going about your business at
home wearing nothing but underwear in
winter you're likely to be cold and
inclined to turn up the heater putting
on warm clothes will solve this issue
add some extra insulation to your home
it'll better keep the heat and lessen
your need to turn up the thermostat and
you know what that mean is right you can
additionally insulate your walls by
strategically placing bulky furniture
like bookshelves along though take it
easy on hot water for example you can
wash the dishes in still water instead
of running the tap all the time and
installing an efficient showerhead will
further reduce water use oh by the way
air dry the dishes instead of running
the dishwasher for it you'll cut as much
as $50 off your electricity bill per
year if you thaw your frozen food such
as meat or vegetable or cooking it
you'll save both time and money on
preparing dishes as far as cooking is
concerned baking and roasting is more
effective if you do it in glass cookware
aluminum which is the second best choice
is slower to conduct heat
dimmer switches will help you control
the amount of light in your Hall if you
don't need full illumination in the
evening a dimmer switch will let you set
both the mood and save some energy an
air-conditioner uses much more energy
than other ways to control temperature
like fans and summer or floor heating
and warm clothes and winter if you're
set on saving as much moolah on
electricity as possible put off using AC
as much as you can alternatively turn
off any auxiliary temperature control
when using the AC you don't need that
fan running when you've already got your
air conditioner on max if you have a
ceiling fan belt using it in combination
with the AC will help spread the cool
air to other rooms cut down on watching
TV get a life already ahead sorry I'm
just kidding but anyway reducing your TV
watch time will also reduce the numbers
you see in the electricity bill a
clothes dryer is convenient but it eats
up lots of energy if you wash your
clothes in the evening and then hang
them to dry overnight you'll get the
same result without the costs if you
can't let go of your clothes dryer at
least put a dry towel with every batch
of wet clothes and will reduce drying
time by absorbing wetness and being a
towel it will dry by itself pretty
quickly a porch light is nothing but a
huge energy drain set it on a timer or
make it motion sensitive to only turn on
when necessary your lightbulbs might
also be the source of larger bills
modern energy-efficient LED lights will
cost you more to buy but they'll save
you tons of money in the long run and
they serve much longer most utility
companies have special off-peak rates
but their rates that are lower if you
use electrical appliances during a
specific time of day find out the
off-peak time of your utility provider
and run the most energy hungry devices
during that period if you aren't one to
turn off your PC every time you go away
for a few hours then set it to go to
sleep mode after some time
a half-an-hour this way you'll stop
wasting energy on a working computer all
the time
summer heat can be a real problem not
only for your body but for your wallet
too if you leave the blinds or drapes
open in summer the Sun will heat your
home so much that your a/c will have to
spend much more energy to cool it down
in winter though it's best to keep the
window shades open to let the Sun inside
it will help you warm your home faster
if you have a garage keep it closed and
locked especially in winter not only
does it prevent cold air and drafts from
getting inside your home but it doesn't
let anyone with nasty intentions get in
either those heating elements on your
kitchen stove are different in size for
a reason match your pants to them to
conserve heat and not let it go to waste
if you're using an electric stove you
know it keeps the heat for some time
even after you turn it off take
advantage of this feature turn the stove
off 5 to 10 minutes before your dish is
cooked and you'll still get the job done
use a kitchen timer to know when your
food is cooked instead of cooking
without lids or opening the oven to
check up on your roast chicken this lets
the heat out increasing the cooking time
by the way the hotter it is inside the
harder your fridge and a/c have to work
open your windows at least a fraction
and winter to let the cool air in while
cooking and try to cook at cooler times
in summer keep your fridge properly
maintained regularly dust and vacuum its
coils defrost it if you don't have the
no frost feature and set it to the
temperatures recommended by its user
manual it's one of the costly appliances
in your house so use it wisely before
you put your dishes into the dishwasher
scrape and rinse them yourself this will
reduce the time and energy needed to
wash the dishes the dishwasher also uses
the same amount of water and electricity
no matter how much or little you load it
so make the most of its inner space
fewer washes mean less energy wasted
clean all filters on all appliances in
due time this includes the vacuum
cleaner ventilation AC dishwasher and
whatnot dirty and clogged appliances are
much less efficient choose appliances
that suit your needs
if you live alone you don't need a huge
fridge washing machine or whatever there
are compact options that will use less
energy when you leave for a long time
turn off and unplug everything including
the fridge just don't forget to take all
the food out of it in advance and eat
all of it somehow a front-loading
washing-machine is popular for a reason
it uses up less energy than the vertical
one new tech isn't always for the good
some innovative appliances might be just
a marketing ploy to make you buy an
unnecessary and energy-hungry device a
natural gas stove doesn't use
electricity at all so it wins when
compared to an electric one but keep in
mind that it's heating efficiency is
only about 50% for best results opt for
convection stove it's about 95 percent
efficient place your fridge in a cool
corner of your kitchen letting it stay
in direct sunlight or right next to a
hot stove we'll make it work harder and
consume more energy same goes for the AC
unit if it's too close to an appliance
that heats when used the AC will detect
the heat and confuse it for increased
room temperature strategically place
light fixtures in your home LED lights
can be placed anywhere you like so don't
waste energy by installing them where
you know you won't need much light if
you have the opportunity switch your
desktop computer for a laptop it'll save
you a hefty sum and electricity costs if
you wrap an insulation blanket around
your water heater it will stop losing
heat to the outside and save you a
couple of dozen bucks per year hey if
you learn something new today then give
the video a like and share with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right
and remember stay on the bright side of
life